FIRST RESPONSE — EDITED DEMO NARRATION GUIDE

This is a guide for the real capture manifest, not a finished results transcript.
Use only screenshots from the actual run. Replace every bracketed factual slot
with a checked fact, or omit that sentence. The assembler rejects unresolved
factual placeholders. It does not infer pass counts or timing from screenshots.

Synthesized scenes say EDITED HIGHLIGHTS / NARRATION: macOS SAY. An optional
recorded-audio scene says ACTUAL GEMINI LIVE AUDIO / EDITED HIGHLIGHTS /
APPROXIMATE CAPTIONS. Do not describe the assembled video as an uninterrupted
capture or an entire native conversation. Only a supplied actual recording is
the original live audio; other speech is separately synthesized narration.

Suggested narrative, approximately two minutes after actual facts are inserted:

01 — The incident workbench
First Response turns an incident into a sequence of evidence, tested repairs,
and an explicit operator decision. These are edited highlights from an actual
run, with separate narration.

02 — A real code fault
We inject [FAULT_DESCRIPTION] into a working copy of the toy checkout service.
The checked-in source stays intact. Actual checkout probes now fail, and the
workbench records the exception and the changed source line.

03 — Evidence before a diagnosis
A Pydantic AI investigator sends the observed exception, source, and change
diff to Gemini. Its typed diagnosis must cite real evidence and identify the
matching file and line. Unsupported output stops the investigation.

04 — Repairs derived from the broken source
A second Gemini agent proposes three distinct repairs from the broken code
and observed evidence. It is not shown the authored repair library. Each edit
is deliberately bounded and tied to the original source fingerprint.

05 — Independent verification
Each candidate runs in its own network-disabled Modal sandbox, with the
reproduction and the unchanged regression suite. [VERIFIED_RESULT_SENTENCE]
These are the recorded execution results. The model does not choose the counts.

06 — Inspect the exact change
The operator inspects the source diff and the candidate's verification result.
The application will accept only a verified candidate from this incident and
this exact source snapshot. Inspection alone does not apply it.

07 — Human approval
The operator explicitly approves the selected repair. [VOICE_DESCRIPTION]
The chosen edit is saved as data in the runtime copy. Generated modules are
never imported or executed on the host.

08 — Verify the recovery
Approval triggers another Modal run: the reproduction, the regression suite,
and actual checkout probes. [ACTUAL_RECOVERY_SENTENCE]
The result is a downloadable patch and a recorded approval, not a production
deployment. This demo covers two controlled fault types; the verification and
approval pattern is the point.

FACTUAL SLOT RULES

- FAULT_DESCRIPTION: use the actual injected code change shown in that run.
- VERIFIED_RESULT_SENTENCE: state only the actual candidate outcomes and test
  counts shown by the saved VerifyResult records. All three passing is valid.
- VOICE_DESCRIPTION: describe only a voice interaction actually captured and
  verified. Otherwise omit this sentence; typed approval is a complete demo.
- ACTUAL_RECOVERY_SENTENCE: use the actual post-approval suite and checkout probe
  result. Include elapsed time only if measured from that same incident.
- Avoid saying a PR was opened, a production service was repaired, the video is
  native 4K, or the narration is the original Gemini voice unless separately true.

MANIFEST AND BUILD

Put the real screenshots in .runtime/demo-captures and create manifest.json:

{
  "title": "First Response — verified incident repair",
  "facts": {"incident_id": "the actual incident ID", "results_receipt": "path to its saved receipt"},
  "scenes": [
    {
      "image": "01-alert.png",
      "heading": "An actual checkout failure",
      "narration": "The exact factual narration approved for this screenshot."
    }
  ]
}

Add the remaining real scenes. Narration is mandatory; no results are invented
by the script. Image paths resolve relative to the manifest. Optional per-scene
"duration" is a minimum hold in seconds and must fit its measured narration.
Spare target time is distributed among the scenes as quiet screenshot holds.

To include one actual Gemini Live response, add an existing local WAV and its
exact checked transcript to the corresponding scene:

{
  "image": "06-live-status.png",
  "heading": "The actual Gemini Live response",
  "audio": "gemini-status.wav",
  "narration": "The exact words heard in this actual recorded response."
}

The optional "audio" path resolves beside the manifest (or --captures-dir).
This branch never calls macOS say. It normalizes the complete clip to 48 kHz
mono PCM, preserves its measured duration without cutting or stretching, and
records original and normalized file hashes. It cannot certify a recording's
origin or check transcript accuracy; verify both before supplying the manifest.
Captions split the transcript into readable phrases and divide clip time evenly.
They are labelled approximate on screen and in the receipt, not word-aligned.
The exact transcript remains in the SRT and receipt. Scene silence holds are
added after the recorded clip as needed to reach the chosen export duration.

Validate first:
  python3 scripts/make_demo_video.py --manifest .runtime/demo-captures/manifest.json --validate-only

Assemble a 120-second export:
  python3 scripts/make_demo_video.py --manifest .runtime/demo-captures/manifest.json --target-duration 120

Use --voice to choose an already installed macOS voice, --rate to deliberately
change narration speed, and --overwrite only when revising an existing export.
If the speech cannot fit, the script fails and asks for shorter narration; it
never silently drops scenes or time-stretches speech. A target below 120 seconds
is also allowed. No target above 120 seconds is accepted.

Outputs in .runtime/demo-video:
  first-response-demo.mp4  — 1920x1080 H.264/AAC with burned captions and subtitle track
  narration.wav           — complete mixed audio timeline, including scene holds
  subtitles.srt           — measured synthetic phrase timing; approximate recorded-clip timing
  receipt.json            — source hashes, timings, narration, export details and facts supplied
  ffprobe.json            — independently probed stream details and duration

The script uses Python's standard library, macOS say, native Swift/AppKit for
text rendering, and local ffmpeg/ffprobe. It uses no paid API and controls no UI.
Screenshots are fitted without cropping into a dark 1080p frame; this is an edit
derivative, not a claim about the native resolution of the captured interface.
